On October 29, 2018, Michael Myers, who
has been institutionalized at Smith's
Grove Psychiatric Hospital for 40 years
following his killing spree in Haddonfield,
is being prepared for transfer
to a maximum-security prison.
True crime podcasters Aaron Korey and Dana Haines
visit the hospital, and, during their encounter,
Aaron displays the mask that Michael wore in 1978
to him, to no effect. The following day, as he is
being transferred, Michael purposely crashes
the bus, kills a father and son for their car,
and returns to Haddonfield.
In Haddonfield, Laurie Strode is
still living in fear of Michael; she is drinking
heavily, rarely leaving her fortified house,
and alienating herself from her daughter
Karen, whom the state took away from her
at age 12. The only person she keeps in
contact with is Karen's daughter, Allyson.
On the morning of October 31, Michael sees Aaron
and Dana visiting his sister Judith's grave. He
follows them to a gas station where he kills them
both, as well as a mechanic for his coveralls,
before recovering his old mask from
Aaron's car. Deputy Frank Hawkins,
who arrested Michael in 1978, tries to convince
Sheriff Barker about Michael's danger after
learning that he has escaped. Laurie also learns
of Michael's escape and attempts to warn Karen,
but Karen dismisses her concerns,
urging Laurie to move on with her life.
Later that night, Allyson finds her boyfriend
Cameron cheating on her at a costume party and
leaves with his friend Oscar. Meanwhile, while
babysitting a boy named Julian, Allyson's best
friend Vicky and her boyfriend Dave are attacked
by Michael. Vicky sacrifices herself to protect
Julian. Deputy Hawkins and Laurie overhear
the incident on the radio and go over to the
house. Laurie sees Michael, coming face-to-face
with him for the first time in 40 years. Laurie
shoots Michael in the shoulder before he flees.
Dr. Ranbir Sartain, Michael's psychiatrist,
persuades Sheriff Barker to help in the hunt for
Michael. Meanwhile, on the walk home from the
party, Michael finds and kills Oscar, but Hawkins
and Sartain arrive just in time to rescue Allyson.
Hawkins then tries to kill Michael, but Sartain –
who has become obsessed with Michael's enigmatic
motivations – attacks and leaves Hawkins for
dead. It is revealed that he orchestrated
Michael's escape to study him "in the wild."
However, Michael kills Sartain and Allyson
flees from the scene. Michael then ambushes and
kills two police officers arriving at the scene.
Michael drives the dead officers' car to Laurie's
house, where she and Karen have met with Allyson.
When Laurie's son-in-law Ray goes outside to
greet who he believes are the two officers,
Michael strangles him to death. Laurie manages
to get Karen to safety before she engages in a
showdown with Michael. Laurie severely injures
Michael, but he stabs her in the abdomen and
pushes her over a balcony. When Michael goes
to check Laurie's body, he finds it missing.
Allyson arrives and calls out for her grandmother,
luring Michael and allowing Karen to shoot him in
the jaw. Laurie suddenly reappears and attacks
Michael, trapping him inside the safe room with
Karen and Allyson's help. The trio sets the house
ablaze, and Laurie says goodbye to Michael before
she begins to faint and lets her daughter and
granddaughter quickly hitchhike a passerby vehicle
to take her to the hospital. A final shot of the
burning basement is shown, with Michael nowhere
in sight. In a post-credits scene, Michael's
breathing is heard, indicating that he survived.